Fix/upgrade guide dep warnings (#7239)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/05-upgrading-to-v1.10.md

### Deprecation warnings

> Starting in v1.10, you will receive deprecation warnings for dbt code that will become invalid in the future, including: 

Author: ```suggestion
Starting in `v1.10`, you will receive deprecation warnings for dbt code that will become invalid in the future, including: 
```

> Starting in `v1.10`, you will receive deprecation warnings for dbt code that will become invalid in the future, including: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in v1.10, you will receive deprecation warnings for dbt code that will become invalid in the future, including: 
```

> - Custom inputs (e.g. unrecognized resource properties, configurations, and top-level keys)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Custom inputs (for example, unrecognized resource properties, configurations, and top-level keys)
```

- Duplicate YAML keys in the same file

> - Unexpected jinja blocks (e.g. `{% endmacro %}` tags without a corresponding `{% macro %}` tag)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unexpected jinja blocks (for example, `{% endmacro %}` tags without a corresponding `{% macro %}` tag)
```

- And more

> We will start raising these warnings in `v1.10`, but making these changes will not be prerequisite to use `v1.10`. We know it will take existing users time to migrate their projects, and it is not our goal to break anyone overnight. The goal is to enable dbt users to work with more safety, feedback, and confidence going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt will start raising these warnings in version 1.10, but making these changes will not be a prerequisite for using it. We at dbt Labs understand that it will take existing users time to migrate their projects, and it is not our goal to disrupt anyone with this update. The goal is to enable you and your dbt users to work with more safety, feedback, and confidence going forward.
```

> dbt will start raising these warnings in version 1.10, but making these changes will not be a prerequisite for using it. We at dbt Labs understand that it will take existing users time to migrate their projects, and it is not our goal to disrupt anyone with this update. The goal is to enable you and your dbt users to work with more safety, feedback, and confidence going forward.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt will start raising these warnings in version `1.10`, but making these changes will not be a prerequisite for using it. We at dbt Labs understand that it will take existing users time to migrate their projects, and it is not our goal to disrupt anyone with this update. The goal is to enable you to work with more safety, feedback, and confidence going forward.
```

What does this mean for you?

> 1. If your project (or dbt package) hits a new deprecation warning in `v1.10`, you should plan to update your invalid code soon! Even though it’s just a warning for now, in a future version of dbt, we will be enforcing stricter validation to the inputs of your dbt project.

Author: I think we should add a callout as well to the tool @b-per is working on (https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cleanup) that you can use to autofix a lot of these.

Open to ideas on wording!

Reviewer: I'll check with Benoit about the tools status and circle back to this

> 1. If your project (or dbt package) encounters a new deprecation warning in `v1.10`, plan to update your invalid code soon. Although it’s just a warning for now, in a future version, dbt will enforce stricter validation of the inputs in your project.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If your project (or dbt package) encounters a new deprecation warning in `v1.10`, plan to update your invalid code soon. Although it’s just a warning for now, in a future version, dbt will enforce stricter validation of the inputs in your project. Check out the [`dbt-cleanup` tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cleanup) to autofix many of these!
```

> 1. If your project (or dbt package) encounters a new deprecation warning in v1.10, plan to update your invalid code soon. Although it’s just a warning for now, in a future version, dbt will enforce stricter validation of the inputs in your dbt project.

Author: ```suggestion
1. If your project (or dbt package) encounters a new deprecation warning in `v1.10`, plan to update your invalid code soon. Although it’s just a warning for now, in a future version, dbt will enforce stricter validation of the inputs in your project.
```

> 1. If your project (or dbt package) hits a new deprecation warning in `v1.10`, you should plan to update your invalid code soon! Even though it’s just a warning for now, in a future version of dbt, we will be enforcing stricter validation to the inputs of your dbt project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your project (or dbt package) encounters a new deprecation warning in v1.10, plan to update your invalid code soon. Although it’s just a warning for now, in a future version, dbt will enforce stricter validation of the inputs in your dbt project.
```

> 2. In the future, the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta) will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes. Everything else will will be strongly typed and strictly validated. If you have an extra attribute you want to include in your project, or a model config you want to access in a custom materialization, you must nest it under `meta` moving forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the future, the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta) will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes. Everything else will be strongly typed and strictly validated. If you have an extra attribute you want to include in your project, or a model config you want to access in a custom materialization, you must nest it under `meta` moving forward.
```

> 3. If you are using the [`—-warn-error` flag](/reference/global-configs/warnings) (or `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'`) to promote all warnings to errors, this will include new deprecation warnings coming to dbt Core. If you don’t want these to be promoted to errors, the `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over exactly which types of warnings are treated as errors. You can set `"warn": ["Deprecations"]` (new as of v1.10) to continue treating the deprecation warnings as warnings.

Author: ```suggestion
3. If you are using the [`—-warn-error` flag](/reference/global-configs/warnings) (or `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'`) to promote all warnings to errors, this will include new deprecation warnings coming to dbt Core. If you don’t want these to be promoted to errors, the `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over exactly which types of warnings are treated as errors. You can set `"warn": ["Deprecations"]` (new as of `v1.10`) to continue treating the deprecation warnings as warnings.
```

> 3. If you are using the [`—-warn-error` flag](/reference/global-configs/warnings) (or `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'`) to promote all warnings to errors, this will include new deprecation warnings coming to Core. If you don’t want these to be promoted to errors, the `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over exactly which types of warnings are treated as errors - you can set `"warn": ["Deprecations"]` (new as of `v1.10`) to continue treating the deprecation warnings as warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you are using the [`—-warn-error` flag](/reference/global-configs/warnings) (or `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'`) to promote all warnings to errors, this will include new deprecation warnings coming to dbt Core. If you don’t want these to be promoted to errors, the `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over exactly which types of warnings are treated as errors. You can set `"warn": ["Deprecations"]` (new as of v1.10) to continue treating the deprecation warnings as warnings.
```

- Silently ignoring misspelled properties and configurations (for example, `desciption:` instead of `description:`).
- Unintended collisions with user code when dbt introduces a new “reserved” property or configuration.

> In `v1.10`, if you have an unrecognized custom property, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting custom properties. Moving forward, these should be nested under the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta) which will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes:

Reviewer: We're duplicating information here. Can we bundle this in with the point made above?
```suggestion
If you have an unrecognized custom property, you will receive a warning, and in a future version, dbt will cease to support custom properties. Moving forward, these should be nested under the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta), which will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes:
```

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    description: A model in my project.
    config:
      meta:
        dbt_is_awesome: true 

```

#### Duplicate keys in the same yaml file

> In `v1.10`, if two identical keys exist in the same yaml file, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting duplicate keys with silent overwrite. Previously, if identical keys existed in the same yaml file, dbt would use the last configuration listed in the file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If two identical keys exist in the same YAML file, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting duplicate keys with silent overwrite. Previously, if identical keys existed in the same YAML file, dbt would use the last configuration listed in the file. 
```

<File name='profiles.yml'>

```yml

my_profile:
  target: my_target
  outputs:
...

my_profile: # dbt would use only this profile key
  target: my_other_target
  outputs:
...

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

</File>
```

Moving forward, you should delete unused keys or move them to a separate yaml file.

#### Unexpected jinja blocks

> In `v1.10`, if you have an orphaned jinja block, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting unexpected jinja blocks. Previously, these orphaned jinja blocks were silently ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an orphaned Jinja block, you will receive a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting unexpected Jinja blocks. Previously, these orphaned Jinja blocks were silently ignored.
```

<File name='macros/my_macro.sql'>

```sql

{% endmacro %} # orphaned endmacro jinja block

{% macro hello() %}
hello!
{% endmacro %}

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</File>

```

- Silently ignoring misspelled properties and configurations (for example, `desciption:` instead of `description:`).
- Unintended collisions with user code when dbt introduces a new “reserved” property or configuration.

If you have an unrecognized custom property, you will receive a warning, and in a future version, dbt will cease to support custom properties. Moving forward, these should be nested under the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta), which will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes:

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    description: A model in my project.
    config:
      meta:
        dbt_is_awesome: true 

```

#### Duplicate keys in the same yaml file

If two identical keys exist in the same YAML file, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting duplicate keys with silent overwrite. Previously, if identical keys existed in the same YAML file, dbt would use the last configuration listed in the file. 

<File name='profiles.yml'>

```yml

my_profile:
  target: my_target
  outputs:
...

my_profile: # dbt would use only this profile key
  target: my_other_target
  outputs:
...

```

</File>

> Moving forward, you should delete unused keys or move them to a separate yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Moving forward, you should delete unused keys or move them to a separate YAML file.
```

- Silently ignoring misspelled properties and configurations (for example, `desciption:` instead of `description:`).
- Unintended collisions with user code when dbt introduces a new “reserved” property or configuration.

If you have an unrecognized custom property, you will receive a warning, and in a future version, dbt will cease to support custom properties. Moving forward, these should be nested under the [`meta` config](/reference/resource-configs/meta), which will be the only place to put custom user-defined attributes:

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    description: A model in my project.
    config:
      meta:
        dbt_is_awesome: true 

```

#### Duplicate keys in the same yaml file

> If two identical keys exist in the same YAML file, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting duplicate keys with silent overwrite. Previously, if identical keys existed in the same YAML file, dbt would use the last configuration listed in the file. 

Author: ```suggestion
If two identical keys exist in the same YAML file, you will get a warning, and in a future version, dbt will stop supporting duplicate keys. Previously, if identical keys existed in the same YAML file, dbt silently overwrite, using the last configuration listed in the file. 
```
